What follows is a short description of yacas-mode and yacas-notebook-mode
(taken from Emacs's describe-mode command). 
To automatically load yacas-mode and yacas-notebook-mode (as
necessary), insert  
(autoload 'yacas-mode "yacas" "Yacas editing mode" t)
(autoload 'yacas-notebook-mode "yacas-notebook" "Yacas-Notebook editing mode" t)
into your .emacs files.
To automatically start a file ending in xxx (or whatever) in yacas-mode, 
insert
(setq auto-mode-alist (cons '("\\.xxx" . yacas-mode) auto-mode-alist))
into your .emacs file.

Yacas mode:
This is a mode intended to support program development in Yacas.
The following control constructs can be entered automatically.

  C-c C-p  start a function (procedure)    C-c C-v Local
  C-c C-i  If                              C-c C-e Else
  C-c C-f  For                             C-c C-w While
  C-c C-a  ForEach                         C-c C-u Until

The local command is used to add new local variables in a procedure.
The if, while and until commands will prompt for a predicate.
The for command will prompt for start, predicate and increment,
the foreach command will prompt for an item and a list.

C-c < and C-c > move backward and forward respectively to the next line
having the same (or lesser) level of indentation.
The variable yacas-indent controls the number of spaces for each indentation.
C-c C-c will comment out a region, and 
C-u C-c C-c  will un-comment it out.
C-c ] will indent a region to the level of the line before the region.
C-c # will add an inline comment.

Use C-c C-r to run Yacas on the current region under
a special subshell.  C-c C-b does the whole buffer, and
C-c C-l just does the current line.  C-c C-k can
be used to kill the yacas process.
The last output (after the Out> prompt) can be copied onto the kill-ring
with C-c C-o, and the last output, from one input prompt to another, 
can be copied onto the kill-ring with C-c C-s

In the Yacas subshell buffer, the command C-c C-n will move to the next 
prompt, and C-c C-p will move to the previous prompt.  C-up and C-down 
can be used to scroll through the input history.

Yacas-Notebook mode:
This is a mode intended to allow the user to write documents that
include Yacas code.  The file can be LaTeXed to produce nice 
looking output (although that isn't necessary, of course), and so the
mode is an extension of TeX-mode (AucTeX, if you use that) that also
includes all the functionality of yacas-mode.  ("TeX-command-master", 
however, has been rebound to "C-cC-cC-c".)
The units of Yacas code that are worked with are "cells", which are 
delimited by "\yacas" and "\endyacas". The cells can be evaluated 
individually, as a group, and the output can be returned as Yacas output 
or in TeX form.  Evaluating a cell and returning the output is called 
"updating" the cell.  This mode also supports some literate programming 
constructs.  (See the file "Yacas-NotebookIntro.tex" for more 
information.)
The commands for working with cells are:
  C-c C-c o  create a cell         C-c C-c d  delete the cell's output
  C-c C-c u  update a cell's       C-c C-c U  update a cell in TeX form
  C-c C-c a  update all the cells  C-c C-c A  update all the cells in TeX form
  C-c C-c +  go to the next cell   C-c C-c -  go to the previous cell
  C-c C-c q  toggle initialization cells
  C-c C-c Q  evaluate all  initialization cells
  C-c C-c v  update all the initialization cells
  C-c C-c V  update all the initialization cells in TeX form
  C-c C-c =  assemble a cell with references
  C-c C-c @  assemble a cell which defines a package
(With a prefix, C-c C-c a and C-c C-c A will update the cells without
prompting)
Since the Yacas output can be returned to the Yacas-Notebook buffer, by default
the buffer which runs the Yacas process is not shown.  This can be changed.
  C-c C-c B  show the Yacas buffer
  C-c C-c b  don't show the Yacas buffer.
Single lines can be evaluated:
  C-c C-c n replace the current line with Yacas output
  C-c C-c N replace the current line with Yacas output in TeX form.

Finally, the command C-c C-c M will insert a %-*-Yacas-Notebook-*- at
the beginning of the file (if there isn't one there already) so the
file will begin in yacas-notebook-mode next time it's opened.
